---
layout: post
permalink: /envi/
title: To ~/.vimrc or Not To ~/.vimrc
categories: [code, vim]
tags: [envi, vim, vimrc, environment]
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Whenever I am setting up a new programming environment, I scour the web for ```.vimrc``` files to check if there are any settings worth implementing. And usually I just end up leaving it blank (except maybe a `tabstop=2` because 8 spaces is ridiculous).  As neat and useful as the vim plugins and settings are, it feels dangerous to rely on anything other than the vanilla editor.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;My coworker is constantly showing me new plugins and features in his [vim config](http://github.com/ericsage/studio), like real time error checking and special coloring. Basically bringing it as close to an IDE as possible without actually crossing the line. He's gotten so used to his aliases and color scheme that I doubt he would be able to do much on a boilerplate setup.  So the question I have is:

> Which do you prefer? A fully customized environment with plugins and features, or the standard, vanilla vim?

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For most people it depends on how many machines you use on a daily basis.  If you are logging into servers or debugging for other people, its imperative that you are not relying on features that may not be installed on their machines.  But if you are predominantly working on a personal computer, it makes sense to customize the crap out of it and really make it your own, to maximize efficiency.

#### Containerizing Your Environment

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Recently I was introduced to docker containers for command line environment setup.  The only requirement to setup a personal development environment is docker, and a few minutes to fetch the image.  When I was setting up my laptop for lab work, I built a container from the `ericsage/studio` image.

I forked the [studio repository](http://github.com/ericsage/studio) from my coworkers github and reorganized it to fit my own needs.  Where he wrapped the whole thing around a Golang and Python environment, I only needed python. And I didn't need all the color schemes or plugins.  
